### Personal Background

Eric Quinn was born in University Place, Washington in 1982, and has lived in the Pacific Northwest his whole life, aside from a one-year stint in Michigan for law school. He graduated from Pacific Lutheran University in 2006. He is a member of the Rotary Club of Lakewood. Eric loves the outdoors and is also a performance artist. He does, however, spend most of his non-attorney time with family.

### Legal Education

Eric graduated from the Seattle University School of Law, where he was a finalist in the second-year mock trial competition. He worked as a legal intern throughout all three years of his law school career.

### Legal Background

During his first year of law school, Eric worked at the State Appellate Defender's Office (SADO) in Detroit, Michigan. At SADO, he analyzed boxes (and boxes) of case files to determine if individuals had been wrongfully convicted of crimes based on faulty DNA evidence. After transferring to Seattle University for his second year of law school, he worked at the law firm of Patterson, Buchanan, Fobes, Leitch and Kalzer, P.S., where he dealt with issues including, but not limited to, the Public Records Act and the First Amendment. In his third year of law school he enjoyed an externship at the Snohomish County Prosecutor's Office, in the misdemeanor division, where he gained invaluable experience in the court room. That same year, he did another externship at the Pierce County Prosecutor's Office, in the Civil Division, where Joe Quinn had practiced between 1979 and 1983. There, Eric assisted in the defense of Pierce County against claims of defamation and negligence, either through oral advocacy in the courtroom or by writing motions and memoranda. He has done various presentations to the Washington Fire Commissioners Association and the Washington State Risk Management Group, addressing common issues arising in the Practice Areas of Eric T. Quinn, P.S.

### Bar Admissions

State of Washington, 2014